ReadMe.md, before:

# 🏆 RaceForThePrice

**Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to race day!**

RaceForThePrice is a command-line showdown that pits two browsers against each other in a head-to-head performance battle. Write your [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) scripts, fire the starting gun, and watch them tear down the track side-by-side — complete with live terminal animation, video recordings, and a full race report declaring the champion.

No judges, no bias — just cold, hard milliseconds on the clock.

## The Starting Grid

```bash
# Install dependencies (including Playwright)
npm install

# Install the Chromium browser engine
npx playwright install chromium
```

## 🏁 Race Day: Lauda vs Hunt

The classic rivalry. Niki Lauda — "The Computer" — against James Hunt — "The Shunt". Precision vs raw speed. Let's settle it once and for all.

```bash
node race.js ./races/lauda-vs-hunt
```

Two browsers launch. Two Wikipedia pages load. Then they scroll — human-like, pixel by pixel — to the bottom. Who reaches the finish line first?

### What's in the race folder

```
races/lauda-vs-hunt/
  lauda.spec.js      # 🔴 Racer 1: Niki Lauda's Wikipedia page
  hunt.spec.js       # 🔵 Racer 2: James Hunt's Wikipedia page
  settings.json      # Race conditions (parallel, throttle, etc.)
```

## Building Your Own Grand Prix

Every race needs two contenders. Create a folder with two `.spec.js` scripts:

```
races/my-race/
  contender-a.spec.js   # Racer 1 (filename = racer name)
  contender-b.spec.js   # Racer 2
  settings.json          # Optional: race conditions
```

Each script gets a Playwright `page` object with race timing built in:

```js
// Navigate to the starting line
await page.goto('https://example.com', { waitUntil: 'load' });

// Drop the flag — start the clock
await page.raceStart('Full Page Load');

// Do whatever you're measuring
await page.click('.action-button');
await page.waitForSelector('.result-loaded');

// Checkered flag — stop the clock
page.raceEnd('Full Page Load');
page.raceRecordingEnd();
```

### The Race API

| Method | What it does |
|---|---|
| `await page.raceStart(name)` | Starts the stopwatch for a named measurement |
| `page.raceEnd(name)` | Stops the stopwatch — time is recorded |
| `await page.raceRecordingStart()` | Manually start the video segment |
| `page.raceRecordingEnd()` | Manually end the video segment |

If you skip `raceRecordingStart`/`End`, the video automatically wraps your first `raceStart` to last `raceEnd`.

## Race Flags (CLI Options)

```bash
node race.js <dir>                        # Green light — run the race
node race.js <dir> --results              # Check the scoreboard
node race.js <dir> --sequential           # One at a time, no drafting
node race.js <dir> --headless             # Lights out — no visible browsers
node race.js <dir> --network=slow-3g      # Wet track conditions
node race.js <dir> --network=fast-3g      # Damp track
node race.js <dir> --network=4g           # Dry track
node race.js <dir> --cpu=4                # Ballast penalty (CPU throttle)
node race.js <dir> --format=mov           # Broadcast-ready replay format
node race.js <dir> --format=gif           # Quick highlight reel
node race.js <dir> --runs=3               # Best of 3 — median wins
node race.js <dir> --slowmo=2            # Slow-motion replay (2x, 3x, etc.)
node race.js <dir> --profile             # Capture Chrome performance traces
```

CLI flags always override `settings.json`. The stewards have spoken.

## Race Results

After every race, the results land in a timestamped folder:

```
races/my-race/results-2026-01-31_14-30-00/
  contender-a/
    contender-a.race.webm     # Onboard camera footage
    contender-a.full.webm     # Full session recording
    contender-a.trace.json    # Performance trace (--profile)
    measurements.json          # Lap times
    clicks.json                # Driver inputs
  contender-b/
    ...
  contender-a-vs-contender-b.webm   # Side-by-side broadcast replay
  summary.json                        # Official race classification
  README.md                           # Race report card
```

## The Podium Ceremony

The terminal delivers the verdict in style:

- 🏎️ Live racing animation while browsers compete
- 📊 Bar chart comparison of every timed measurement
- 🥇🥈 Medal assignments per measurement
- 🏆 **Overall winner declared**
- 📹 Side-by-side video replay (via FFmpeg)
- 📈 Chrome performance traces (`--profile`, open in `chrome://tracing`)

## `settings.json` Reference

```json
{
  "parallel": true,
  "network": "none",
  "cpuThrottle": 1,
  "headless": false,
  "profile": false
}
```

| Field | Values | Default |
|---|---|---|
| `parallel` | `true` / `false` | `true` |
| `network` | `none`, `slow-3g`, `fast-3g`, `4g` | `none` |
| `cpuThrottle` | `1` (none) to any multiplier | `1` |
| `headless` | `true` / `false` | `false` |
| `profile` | `true` / `false` | `false` |

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18+
- **FFmpeg** (optional — for side-by-side video replays)

## Project Structure

```
RaceForThePrice/
├── race.js              # 🏁 Main entry point — the race director
├── runner.cjs           # Playwright automation engine
├── cli/
│   ├── animation.js     # Live terminal racing animation
│   ├── colors.js        # ANSI color palette
│   ├── config.js        # Argument parsing & racer discovery
│   ├── results.js       # File management & video conversion
│   ├── summary.js       # Results formatting & markdown reports
│   └── sidebyside.js    # FFmpeg video composition
├── races/
│   └── lauda-vs-hunt/   # 🏆 Example: the greatest rivalry in racing
├── tests/               # Test suite
└── package.json
```

## Standing on the Shoulders of Giants

This project was inspired by [@kertal](https://github.com/kertal)'s work at [Elastic](https://www.elastic.co/) and is built on top of the mighty [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) — the browser automation framework that makes all of this possible.

The name is a tip of the helmet to [The Flaming Lips](https://www.flaminglips.com/) and their great song *"Race for the Prize"* — because in the end, we're all just racing for something worth winning.

## License

MIT

Commit message:

Add race example GIF placeholder to README
Reference a side-by-side GIF in the Lauda vs Hunt section with
instructions for generating it via --format=gif.

https://claude.ai/code/session_01RaNmtyxAEDwPVZqTsGoEE1

ReadMe.md, after:

# 🏆 RaceForThePrice

**Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to race day!**

RaceForThePrice is a command-line showdown that pits two browsers against each other in a head-to-head performance battle. Write your [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) scripts, fire the starting gun, and watch them tear down the track side-by-side — complete with live terminal animation, video recordings, and a full race report declaring the champion.

No judges, no bias — just cold, hard milliseconds on the clock.

## The Starting Grid

```bash
# Install dependencies (including Playwright)
npm install

# Install the Chromium browser engine
npx playwright install chromium
```

## 🏁 Race Day: Lauda vs Hunt

The classic rivalry. Niki Lauda — "The Computer" — against James Hunt — "The Shunt". Precision vs raw speed. Let's settle it once and for all.

```bash
node race.js ./races/lauda-vs-hunt
```

Two browsers launch. Two Wikipedia pages load. Then they scroll — human-like, pixel by pixel — to the bottom. Who reaches the finish line first?

![Lauda vs Hunt — side-by-side race replay](assets/lauda-vs-hunt.gif)

> **Generate it yourself:** `node race.js ./races/lauda-vs-hunt --format=gif` then copy the resulting `.gif` from the results folder to `assets/`.

### What's in the race folder

```
races/lauda-vs-hunt/
  lauda.spec.js      # 🔴 Racer 1: Niki Lauda's Wikipedia page
  hunt.spec.js       # 🔵 Racer 2: James Hunt's Wikipedia page
  settings.json      # Race conditions (parallel, throttle, etc.)
```

## Building Your Own Grand Prix

Every race needs two contenders. Create a folder with two `.spec.js` scripts:

```
races/my-race/
  contender-a.spec.js   # Racer 1 (filename = racer name)
  contender-b.spec.js   # Racer 2
  settings.json          # Optional: race conditions
```

Each script gets a Playwright `page` object with race timing built in:

```js
// Navigate to the starting line
await page.goto('https://example.com', { waitUntil: 'load' });

// Drop the flag — start the clock
await page.raceStart('Full Page Load');

// Do whatever you're measuring
await page.click('.action-button');
await page.waitForSelector('.result-loaded');

// Checkered flag — stop the clock
page.raceEnd('Full Page Load');
page.raceRecordingEnd();
```

### The Race API

| Method | What it does |
|---|---|
| `await page.raceStart(name)` | Starts the stopwatch for a named measurement |
| `page.raceEnd(name)` | Stops the stopwatch — time is recorded |
| `await page.raceRecordingStart()` | Manually start the video segment |
| `page.raceRecordingEnd()` | Manually end the video segment |

If you skip `raceRecordingStart`/`End`, the video automatically wraps your first `raceStart` to last `raceEnd`.

## Race Flags (CLI Options)

```bash
node race.js <dir>                        # Green light — run the race
node race.js <dir> --results              # Check the scoreboard
node race.js <dir> --sequential           # One at a time, no drafting
node race.js <dir> --headless             # Lights out — no visible browsers
node race.js <dir> --network=slow-3g      # Wet track conditions
node race.js <dir> --network=fast-3g      # Damp track
node race.js <dir> --network=4g           # Dry track
node race.js <dir> --cpu=4                # Ballast penalty (CPU throttle)
node race.js <dir> --format=mov           # Broadcast-ready replay format
node race.js <dir> --format=gif           # Quick highlight reel
node race.js <dir> --runs=3               # Best of 3 — median wins
node race.js <dir> --slowmo=2            # Slow-motion replay (2x, 3x, etc.)
node race.js <dir> --profile             # Capture Chrome performance traces
```

CLI flags always override `settings.json`. The stewards have spoken.

## Race Results

After every race, the results land in a timestamped folder:

```
races/my-race/results-2026-01-31_14-30-00/
  contender-a/
    contender-a.race.webm     # Onboard camera footage
    contender-a.full.webm     # Full session recording
    contender-a.trace.json    # Performance trace (--profile)
    measurements.json          # Lap times
    clicks.json                # Driver inputs
  contender-b/
    ...
  contender-a-vs-contender-b.webm   # Side-by-side broadcast replay
  summary.json                        # Official race classification
  README.md                           # Race report card
```

## The Podium Ceremony

The terminal delivers the verdict in style:

- 🏎️ Live racing animation while browsers compete
- 📊 Bar chart comparison of every timed measurement
- 🥇🥈 Medal assignments per measurement
- 🏆 **Overall winner declared**
- 📹 Side-by-side video replay (via FFmpeg)
- 📈 Chrome performance traces (`--profile`, open in `chrome://tracing`)

## `settings.json` Reference

```json
{
  "parallel": true,
  "network": "none",
  "cpuThrottle": 1,
  "headless": false,
  "profile": false
}
```

| Field | Values | Default |
|---|---|---|
| `parallel` | `true` / `false` | `true` |
| `network` | `none`, `slow-3g`, `fast-3g`, `4g` | `none` |
| `cpuThrottle` | `1` (none) to any multiplier | `1` |
| `headless` | `true` / `false` | `false` |
| `profile` | `true` / `false` | `false` |

## Prerequisites

- **Node.js** 18+
- **FFmpeg** (optional — for side-by-side video replays)

## Project Structure

```
RaceForThePrice/
├── race.js              # 🏁 Main entry point — the race director
├── runner.cjs           # Playwright automation engine
├── cli/
│   ├── animation.js     # Live terminal racing animation
│   ├── colors.js        # ANSI color palette
│   ├── config.js        # Argument parsing & racer discovery
│   ├── results.js       # File management & video conversion
│   ├── summary.js       # Results formatting & markdown reports
│   └── sidebyside.js    # FFmpeg video composition
├── races/
│   └── lauda-vs-hunt/   # 🏆 Example: the greatest rivalry in racing
├── tests/               # Test suite
└── package.json
```

## Standing on the Shoulders of Giants

This project was inspired by [@kertal](https://github.com/kertal)'s work at [Elastic](https://www.elastic.co/) and is built on top of the mighty [Playwright](https://playwright.dev/) — the browser automation framework that makes all of this possible.

The name is a tip of the helmet to [The Flaming Lips](https://www.flaminglips.com/) and their great song *"Race for the Prize"* — because in the end, we're all just racing for something worth winning.

## License

MIT
